# OpenBMC Development Environment

**Document Purpose:** How to set up an OpenBMC development environment

**Audience:** Programmer familiar with Linux and BMCs

**Prerequisites:** Current Linux, Mac, or Windows system

## Overview

OpenBMC uses the [Yocto](https://www.yoctoproject.org/) Project as its
underlying building and distribution generation framework. The main OpenBMC
[README](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc/blob/master/README.md) provides
information on getting up and going with Yocto and OpenBMC. This tutorial will
walk you through utilizing bitbake to build OpenBMC firmware and boot it in
[QEMU](https://www.qemu.org/).

Bitbake is the build engine used by Yocto and OpenBMC to build its custom Linux
distribution for a system. QEMU is a software emulator that can be used to run
OpenBMC images.

This doc walks through the recommended steps for setting up an OpenBMC
development environment, building OpenBMC, and running that image in QEMU.

For testing purposes, this guide uses the Romulus system as the default because
this is the system tested for each CI job, which means it's the most stable.

## Install Linux Environment

If you are running Linux, and are ok with installing some additional packages,
then you can skip to step 3.

The recommended OpenBMC development environment is the latest Ubuntu LTS
release. Other versions of Linux may work but you are using that at your own
risk. If you have Windows or Mac OS then VirtualBox is the recommended
virtualization tool to run the development environment.

1. Install Virtual Machine

   Install either [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/wiki/Downloads) or
   [VMware](https://www.vmware.com/products/workstation-player/workstation-player-evaluation.html)
   onto your computer (Mac, Windows, Linux)

   Both have free versions available for what you need. VirtualBox is what the
   majority of core OpenBMC development is using. **Note:** If you want to use
   this VM to BitBake a full OpenBMC image, you'll want to allocate as many
   resources as possible. Ideal minimum resources are 8 threads, 16GB memory,
   200GB hard drive.

   OpenBMC continues integration utilizes docker to build its images. This is
   another possibility but not covered within this document. See
   [build-setup.sh](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc-build-scripts/blob/master/build-setup.sh)
   for a reference on the script CI uses to build an appropriate docker
   container and launch bitbake within it. This also works within a podman
   environment.

2. Install the latest Ubuntu LTS release

   The majority of OpenBMC development community uses Ubuntu. The qemu below is
   built on the latest Ubuntu LTS release but whatever is most recent _should_
   work. The same goes for other Linux distributions like Fedora but again,
   these are not tested nearly as much by the core OpenBMC team as Ubuntu.

   **VirtualBox Tips** - You'll want copy/paste working between your VM and
   Host. To do that, once you have your VM up and running:

   - Devices -> Insert Guest Additions CD Image (install)
   - Devices -> Shared Clipboard -> Bidirectional
   - reboot (the VM)

3. Install required packages

   Refer to
   [Prerequisite](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc/blob/master/README.md#1-prerequisite)
   link.

   **Note** - In Ubuntu, a "sudo apt-get update" will probably be needed before
   installing the packages.

## Building OpenBMC

Note this section will take you through the process of building a Romulus
OpenBMC image. Future tutorials will build on this by having you customize the
image. If you would like to skip the building and just try out OpenBMC and QEMU
then you can download the latest Romulus image from
[here](https://jenkins.openbmc.org/job/latest-master/label=docker-builder,target=romulus/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/openbmc/build/tmp/deploy/images/romulus/obmc-phosphor-image-romulus.static.mtd)
and skip to the
[Download and Start QEMU Session](#download-and-start-qemu-session) section.

1. Clone OpenBMC

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc.git
   ```

2. Build the Romulus OpenBMC Image (note this will take 30 - 120 minutes
   depending on your hardware)

   ```
   . setup romulus
   bitbake obmc-phosphor-image
   ```

The Romulus image is now located in
`build/tmp/deploy/images/romulus/obmc-phosphor-image-romulus.static.mtd`
relative to your current directory.

## Download and Start QEMU Session

1. Download latest openbmc/qemu fork of QEMU application

   ```
   wget https://jenkins.openbmc.org/job/latest-qemu-x86/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/qemu/build/qemu-system-arm

   chmod u+x qemu-system-arm
   ```

2. Copy the image generated by the build to your current directory

   ```
   cp ./tmp/deploy/images/romulus/obmc-phosphor-image-romulus.static.mtd ./
   ```

3. Start QEMU with the Romulus image

   **Note** - For REST, SSH and IPMI to work into your QEMU session, you must
   connect up some host ports to the REST, SSH and IPMI ports in your QEMU
   session. In this example, it just uses 2222, 2443, 2623. You can use whatever
   you prefer.

   ```
   ./qemu-system-arm -m 256 -M romulus-bmc -nographic \
       -drive file=./obmc-phosphor-image-romulus.static.mtd,format=raw,if=mtd \
       -net nic \
       -net user,hostfwd=:127.0.0.1:2222-:22,hostfwd=:127.0.0.1:2443-:443,hostfwd=udp:127.0.0.1:2623-:623,hostname=qemu
   ```

   If you are running within a virtual environment where you can use the real
   ports, then you would start QEMU with the following.

   ```
   ./qemu-system-arm -m 256 -machine romulus-bmc -nographic \
       -drive file=./obmc-phosphor-image-romulus.static.mtd,format=raw,if=mtd \
       -net nic \
       -net user,hostfwd=:127.0.0.1:22-:22,hostfwd=:127.0.0.1:443-:443,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:80-:80,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:2200-:2200,hostfwd=udp:127.0.0.1:623-:623,hostfwd=udp:127.0.0.1:664-:664,hostname=qemu
   ```

4. Wait for your QEMU-based BMC to boot

   Login using default root/0penBmc login (Note the 0 is a zero).

5. Check the system state

   You'll see a lot of services starting in the console, you can start running
   the obmcutil tool to check the state of the OpenBMC state services. When you
   see the following then you have successfully booted to "Ready" state.

   ```
   root@openbmc:~# obmcutil state
   CurrentBMCState     : xyz.openbmc_project.State.BMC.BMCState.Ready
   CurrentPowerState   : xyz.openbmc_project.State.Chassis.PowerState.Off
   CurrentHostState    : xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.HostState.Off
   ```

   **Note** To exit (and kill) your QEMU session run: `ctrl+a x`

6. Test out the ssh network interface

   Run these from the system you started QEMU on

   ```
   ssh root@localhost -p 2222
   ```

   Login is the same as what was used above for the default QEMU login.

You've now built an OpenBMC distribution and booted it in QEMU!

## Alternative yocto QEMU

yocto has tools for building and running qemu. These tools avoid some of the
configuration issues that come from downloading a prebuilt image, and modifying
binaries. Using yocto qemu also uses the
[TAP interface](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/networking/tuntap.txt)
which some find be more stable. This is particularly useful when debugging at
the application level.

This is a more advanced section and may be useful to come back to once the
basics are working for you. The next tutorial will focus on devtool and how to
utilize it to customize your OpenBMC image.

- set up a bmc build environment

```
source setup romulus myBuild/build
```

- add the qemu x86 open embedded machine for testing

```
MACHINE ??= "qemux86"
```

- Make the changes to the build (ie devtool modify bmcweb, devtool add gdb)

```
devtool modify bmcweb myNewLocalbmcweb/
```

- build open bmc for the qemu x86 machine

```
MACHINE=qemux86 bitbake obmc-phosphor-image
```

- run qemu they way yocto provides

```
runqemu myBuild/build/tmp/deploy/images/qemux86/ nographic \
    qemuparams="-m 2048"
```

- after that the all the a TAP network interface is added, and protocol like
  ssh, scp, http work well.
