{
  "comments": [
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "4dfa3457_308fc94f",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 19,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001354
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-04T21:33:55Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Am I understanding correctly that this daemon makes it so that entity-manager can do probes based on GPIO bit readings for a device described in another entity-manager JSON config?\n\nI think it would be good to have a statement at the bottom of \u0027problem description\u0027 that summaries the solution the rest of the doc describes.\n\nA design doc I recently got merged ended the problem description section with\n\n\u003eThis proposal describes a method of handling for hardware where HW ID data is gathered from device tree file paths for Entity-Manager consumption.",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "0018016c_2c990942",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 19,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-05T12:02:35Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "And i always thought \u0027Problem Description\u0027 section is just for describing the problem, independent of the solution.\n\nAdded new summary sections to the \u0027Proposed Solution\u0027 section to make it clearer.",
      "parentUuid": "4dfa3457_308fc94f",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "9cfd02c5_c5560a9e",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 28,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001354
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-04T21:33:55Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "nit: phosphor-inventory-manager*",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "956f59e6_4f86b7a8",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 28,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-05T12:02:35Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Done",
      "parentUuid": "9cfd02c5_c5560a9e",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "8cbd9aca_1ed20604",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 121,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001354
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-04T21:33:55Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Could we get a \u0027high level flow\u0027 here that the describes how the gpio-presence-sensor design works? \n\nA lot of the info is included in the details linked and elsewhere in the doc, but I think a short, low-detail summary of the steps involved here at the top would be nice.\n\nThis is what ended up getting accepted on the doc I recently got merged, just in case it\u0027s helpful \n\nhttps://github.com/openbmc/docs/blob/master/designs/entity-manager-hw-id-vpd-discover-via-device-tree.md#proposed-design",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "0519ac49_f241a351",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 121,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-05T12:02:35Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I can rework the explanations to go from less to more detail.\nThere is 2 new sections now \n\u0027Forward flow summary\u0027 and \u0027Reverse flow summary\u0027.",
      "parentUuid": "8cbd9aca_1ed20604",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "e1e49444_bc25000d",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 140,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001354
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-04T21:47:02Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Also - since daemon code is starting to get submitted to Gerrit, have you already pushed a new interface YAMLs to phosphor-dbus-interfaces for discussion there?\n\nIf not, I\u0027d recommend doing that sooner than later, since all kinds of discussion can happen around small details there.\n\nIn my own daemon\u0027s case, I spent waaaay too much time debating with folks over how to name the thing, then when I finally polished and submitted it, it got an almost immediate \"no way we\u0027re doing any of that, use an existing interface\" :p \n\n(I suspect it won\u0027t be the same same case here, though)",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "080f3fa4_00a564f9",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 140,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-04T22:10:15Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e Also - since daemon code is starting to get submitted to Gerrit, have you already pushed a new interface YAMLs to phosphor-dbus-interfaces for discussion there?\n\nDid not push anything there, since the design is still being discussed. If the dbus interface descriptions are unclear, that\u0027s a review concern i can try to resolve.\n\n\u003e If not, I\u0027d recommend doing that sooner than later, since all kinds of discussion can happen around small details there.\n\nIf people approve my design here (which already includes the dbus interfaces) and then reject it later in the PDI repo, then i should probably just resign and look for a simpler job.\n\n\u003e In my own daemon\u0027s case, I spent waaaay too much time debating with folks over how to name the thing, then when I finally polished and submitted it, it got an almost immediate \"no way we\u0027re doing any of that, use an existing interface\"\n\nThat\u0027s unfortunate. From my experience, design documents are the way to go to get agreement on something from multiple people, then implement it. It\u0027s a slow process but practical in the many-repository environment.\n\nbtw thanks for your review and feedback :)",
      "parentUuid": "e1e49444_bc25000d",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "fcf2a4ce_86d0a3c8",
        "filename": "designs/inventory/gpio-based-hardware-inventory.md",
        "patchSetId": 10
      },
      "lineNbr": 140,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001354
      },
      "writtenOn": "2024-11-04T22:24:28Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003eIf people approve my design here (which already includes the dbus interfaces) and then reject it later in the PDI repo, then i should probably just resign and look for a simpler job.\n\nIn my experience, it\u0027s more that folks with a strong opinion on fine details like exactly what\u0027s going to be included in dbus-interface or not might not necessarily be catching design change discussions happening in docs. \n\nI ran into that a ton myself - where folks reading and discussing the designs at a high level might have very different views than the folks maintaining specific repos being considered for landing one change or another.\n\nThat\u0027s part of the fun of big open source projects, I\u0027m finding! :p\n\nIf your design requires a new D-Bus interface, I\u0027d say there\u0027s no harm in submitting what you think should work with your in-progress code so the maintainers and reviewers there can make weigh in sooner than later if you\u0027re going to need to adjust your design somehow based on repo-specific restrictions.",
      "parentUuid": "080f3fa4_00a564f9",
      "revId": "108187f6c9a862c4193ca0262c483ccf040b7bf7",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    }
  ]
}