{
  "comments": [
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "6a40d85c_c685ab91",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 65,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000009
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-29T00:52:02Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "So we have to do this in 3 separate places? Seems tedious.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 52,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 65,
        "endChar": 78
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "07760860_92f1ffe2",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 65,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000879
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-31T19:51:28Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "100% agree. It looks over complicated, IMHO nobody will be willing to do this. Thank you to not involve discord here! )\nMy points and suggestions:\n1) We should keep discussion in one place. Against to Brad I\u0027d prefer this to not be a mailing list, I prefer gerrit, but github also work if we want to separate this process from common architectural review.\n2) Taking in account (1) link to the mailing list is excessive: we use mail there only to announce new OTP, so need to go to https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/ and search for you message.\n3) I suspect, most OTP should be about architectural proposals \u003d\u003e there should be a commit to docs/architecture: I think we can use this document as a part of OTP. Ideally, it should be in the same gerrit change.",
      "parentUuid": "6a40d85c_c685ab91",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 52,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 65,
        "endChar": 78
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "d0f9ec70_cdeef2b0",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 73,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000879
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-31T19:51:28Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Isn\u0027t this was supposed for TOF members voting?",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 73,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 73,
        "endChar": 57
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "0ba45fcc_973e929d",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 75,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000009
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-29T00:52:02Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Honestly, if this is why we\u0027re splitting mailing list vs gerrit I\u0027d prefer we just didn\u0027t, so the discussion will all happen in the one place.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 74,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 75,
        "endChar": 79
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "0109863d_be85e401",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 75,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000002
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-29T16:23:52Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Agreed, and my preference would be that one place be the mailing list.",
      "parentUuid": "0ba45fcc_973e929d",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 74,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 75,
        "endChar": 79
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "4be8c4c8_eaa47df6",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 108,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000879
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-31T19:51:28Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Ouch, you actually involve it! )",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 107,
        "startChar": 60,
        "endLine": 108,
        "endChar": 19
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    },
    {
      "key": {
        "uuid": "5a6fd725_600257c2",
        "filename": "tof/proposals/otp-5.md",
        "patchSetId": 3
      },
      "lineNbr": 115,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000009
      },
      "writtenOn": "2021-10-29T00:52:02Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "This feels process-heavy but I\u0027m not sure what to do about it.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 106,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 115,
        "endChar": 25
      },
      "revId": "6dfaa67adca3cab9e53900b47f59719346962910",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4",
      "unresolved": true
    }
  ]
}