{
  "comments": [
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "f21ad0a3_2e01e269",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 67,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000002
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T18:38:28Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I don\u0027t think you are asking enough maintainers.  Try making these sorts of changes in the MCTP userspace.  Or are we constraining this mandate to repos in the github.com/openbmc namespace?",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 66,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 67,
        "endChar": 21
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "1774e1ad_3127f911",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 67,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:46:33Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "We definitely can\u0027t constrain code in repositories outside the openbmc org.",
      "parentUuid": "f21ad0a3_2e01e269",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 66,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 67,
        "endChar": 21
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "97b2727d_2571837f",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 67,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e I don\u0027t think you are asking enough maintainers.\n\nPlease add anyone that might want to weigh in.\n\nI am mostly going with the assumption that folks interested in changes will be listed in `OWNERS` file.\n\nClosing this since the question has been resolved, please re-open if there\u0027s anything i can do to figure out who to add to this change.",
      "parentUuid": "1774e1ad_3127f911",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 66,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 67,
        "endChar": 21
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "15ce9cb1_e66b414d",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 76,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:57:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I left an example of how you can at least narrow down the file.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 71,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 76,
        "endChar": 25
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "04633c6a_6c2aa49a",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 76,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Added that example. It\u0027s neat how it works for both hardcoded interfaces and generated headers.",
      "parentUuid": "15ce9cb1_e66b414d",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 71,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 76,
        "endChar": 25
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c1bff5c2_62cb8572",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 113,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:57:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "By not using the bindings, there is still an informal dependency on PDI as the documentation.  It\u0027s just no longer enforced by the compiler.\n\nI think we need to quantify why this \"additional dependency\" matters before this objection holds much weight.  There is already a dependency on sdbusplus; you\u0027re just trading that for phosphor-dbus-interfaces instead.  We already have PDI as a dependency in the flash image, as you said, so this isn\u0027t adding size.  We can pretty trivially support meson subprojects now and cross-repository CI.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 108,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 113,
        "endChar": 58
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "f1eb9694_0fe50463",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 113,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "There was a comment [1] that PDI changes can cause unnecessary rebuild of packages in incremental builds.\n\nIf a package depends on PDI, it may get rebuilt even if no interface it depends on has changed.\n\nI am unsure if that\u0027s something which can even be solved in yocto currently. Maybe with split-pkg? \n\nIMO it is a valid concern, just not sure if it\u0027s worth the effort to try and solve it.\n\nReferences:\n[1] https://gerrit.openbmc.org/c/openbmc/phosphor-objmgr/+/85613/comments/aa5bcb92_2d6bd359",
      "parentUuid": "c1bff5c2_62cb8572",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 108,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 113,
        "endChar": 58
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "15ff3f46_8af50926",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 124,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:57:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "The bindings also support creating an additional `std::optional` or however you want to hold it to instantiate an additional interface at a dbus path.  You don\u0027t _have_ to exclusively use the `object::server\u003c...\u003e` varargs template; that\u0027s just there for ease when you do have a static set.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 119,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 124,
        "endChar": 17
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "95df35bd_14b2d0f3",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 124,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I added some concrete examples and also mentioned the `std::optional`.",
      "parentUuid": "15ff3f46_8af50926",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 119,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 124,
        "endChar": 17
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c0caafd0_09c006b8",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 132,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:57:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Didn\u0027t we already agree that PDI is at a minimum the documentation source for all dbus interfaces?  I suspect this is an old objection that is no longer relevant anyhow.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 128,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 132,
        "endChar": 67
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "06e516e0_e018eb5c",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 132,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e Didn\u0027t we already agree that PDI is at a minimum the documentation source for all dbus interfaces?  \n\nMy last status is that there is still an ongoing ToF discussion about \u0027internal\u0027 public interfaces between multiple repositories.\n\n\u003e  I suspect this is an old objection that is no longer relevant anyhow.\n\n@ed@tanous.net Do you agree on this one, shall we remove this section from the message?",
      "parentUuid": "c0caafd0_09c006b8",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 128,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 132,
        "endChar": 67
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "6bb7db16_a9b32024",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 140,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:57:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "We don\u0027t leverage versioning and I don\u0027t want to give the impression that we\u0027re starting to go in that path by giving credence to its suggestion in a commit message.\n\nTopic based CI is how dependencies (and breaking API changes) should be handled (https://lore.kernel.org/openbmc/Zv2oBkO0J6OEUvie@heinlein.vulture-banana.ts.net/).  It has been in place for 1.5 years now.\n\nI don\u0027t understand this \"objection\" to begin with.  Changing strings at-will and breaking other repositories silently is somehow ... better?",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 136,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 140,
        "endChar": 18
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "e447e8d7_9fa877a4",
        "filename": "/COMMIT_MSG",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 140,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e We don\u0027t leverage versioning and I don\u0027t want to give the impression \nthat we\u0027re starting to go in that path by giving credence to its \nsuggestion in a commit message.\n\nUnderstood, i added a section with my impression of how things have been changed and which workflows were used. You have a larger (historical) context there so you might have extra comments / corrections there. My context only goes a few years back.",
      "parentUuid": "6bb7db16_a9b32024",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 136,
        "startChar": 0,
        "endLine": 140,
        "endChar": 18
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "79fd8a1c_eda680bb",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-08T14:50:00Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Adding all current ToF members + folks who had a strong opinion on the topic to this review",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "66c2acd3_44f67336",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000002
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T18:38:28Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I appreciate you trying to build consensus on this.  Good luck.\n\nSome open questions I have are:\n\nWould generated headers be a pre-requisite to using a new language, such as Rust or c, or does this only apply to c++?\n\nDo we require generated headers and constants for interfaces provided by projects such as systemd or the mctp userspace?\n\nAre there any scenarios at all where the use of generated headers would not be mandated?",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "d00a8148_e38bbdf8",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000153
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T18:42:22Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "This would imply that:\n1. All services use the same bindings\n2. All services use generated bindings\n\nAnd as a result, the code would not be as searchable.  Today you can search for an interface, and find all places that implement it.  If we rely on generated headers, that\u0027s no longer the case.  Overall, I am against this.",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "cd5f7c5d_baadc1f7",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:46:33Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I\u0027m on-board with this being documented as the overall direction.  I\u0027m not 100% sure this is the right place for it, but I\u0027m also not sure what is a better place.",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c839ba8c_cecfa3d0",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:46:33Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Grep-ability is the only concern?\n\n\u003e Today you can search for an interface, and find all places that implement it. If we rely on generated headers, that\u0027s no longer the case.\n\nConsidering we currently have 2 different bindings and 1 preference for manual, this isn\u0027t really the case today.  At least the bindings are mostly self-consistent.\n\nEven if you scope to the manual implementations, this isn\u0027t strictly true.  Taken dbus-sensors:\n\n```\n$ rg \"xyz.openbmc_project.Sensor.Threshold\" -l              \nREADME.md\nsrc/Thresholds.cpp\n```\n\nSo, no I can\u0027t find all cases where thresholds are created because we\u0027ve created a \"library\" or \"utility function\" (or one might say \"manually created binding\") so now I also have to find all the cases where _this_ is used.\n\nThe code is just as \"greppable\" when it comes to the bindings, in my opinion (also in dbus-sensors).  I can see all uses of Leak.Detector:\n```\n$ rg \"xyz.openbmc_project.State.Leak.Detector\"\nsrc/leakdetector/LeakGPIODetector.hpp\n12:#include \u003cxyz/openbmc_project/State/Leak/Detector/aserver.hpp\u003e\n\nsrc/leakdetector/LeakGPIODetector.cpp\n9:#include \u003cxyz/openbmc_project/State/Leak/Detector/aserver.hpp\u003e\n\nsrc/leakdetector/LeakEvents.hpp\n5:#include \u003cxyz/openbmc_project/State/Leak/Detector/client.hpp\u003e\n\nsrc/leakdetector/LeakEvents.cpp\n9:#include \u003cxyz/openbmc_project/State/Leak/Detector/event.hpp\u003e\n```",
      "parentUuid": "d00a8148_e38bbdf8",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "e7281247_7b281402",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:46:33Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e Would generated headers be a pre-requisite to using a new language, such as Rust or c, or does this only apply to c++?\n\nWell, this was part of the feedback I left on Rust.  I don\u0027t really want to regress there either.  So, yes, my preference would be if we want to use a new language, someone invests the time in generating a binding generator.\n\n\u003e Do we require generated headers and constants for interfaces provided by projects such as systemd or the mctp userspace?\n\nI\u0027m fine with us going either way on those, but my preference would be to tend towards using a binding.  Someone added `phosphor-dbus-interfaces/yaml/org/freedesktop/UPower/Device.interface.yaml` so that they could use the bindings against it, so there\u0027s no reason you can\u0027t make bindings against non-OpenBMC interfaces.",
      "parentUuid": "66c2acd3_44f67336",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "5111ff92_fe0c811d",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T01:48:32Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Brad, can you give reasons why your vote went to -1?  You asked questions previously with no score. Iâ€™d like to make sure if there is actionable feedback, Alexander has it.",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "d7445d09_cb5848bb",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T04:44:36Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e Even if you scope to the manual implementations, this isn\u0027t strictly true.  Taken dbus-sensors:\n\nIt\u0027s even worse than that, sometimes we **cannot** find an interface at all since the interface name is concatenated from bits and pieces in both config and code.\n\nTry `cd entity-manager;  rg \"Inventory.Item.PowerSupply\"`\n\nIt definitely does create those interfaces but it is impossible to figure it out  in a simple grep without knowing the implementation detail or running the code.\n\nAnother example, trying to find out who creates the fan inventory.\n\nhttps://github.com/search?q\u003dorg%3Aopenbmc+Inventory.Item.Fan\u0026type\u003dcode\nhttps://github.com/search?q\u003dorg%3Aopenbmc+Inventory%2FItem%2FFan\u0026type\u003dcode",
      "parentUuid": "c839ba8c_cecfa3d0",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "9ebee3c2_0dc64efd",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T06:58:18Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e I appreciate you trying to build consensus on this.  Good luck.\n\nThank you, i am hopeful since it\u0027s a fact-based topic and there is quite a number\nof people reviewing with lot\u0027s of experience on using D-Bus.\n\n\u003e Would generated headers be a pre-requisite to using a new language, such as Rust or c, or does this only apply to c++?\n\nMy intent was to document a consensus based *preference*, not a rule. Of course it is impossible to use generated headers if none exist.\n\n`obmc-console` cannot use the currently generated headers for example, since it\u0027s a C project.\n\n\u003e Are there any scenarios at all where the use of generated headers would not be mandated?\n\nThe primary reason i want to document the preference is to be able to implement what i consider to be code improvements.\n\nIf we can agree on a *preferred* way to use D-Bus it does not mean it is the only way. To me it would just mean that contributors can make code changes to move the project in that direction.\n\n\nIf we fail to find and document a preferred way of using D-Bus, it will lead to long-term inconsistency and reduced ability to move code around or find examples of how to do things.",
      "parentUuid": "e7281247_7b281402",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "2522da78_6c86b0df",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000002
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T15:15:06Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I don\u0027t have any actionable feedback, unless \"let\u0027s not do this\" is on the table.  Consider it a vote for the sake of posterity.",
      "parentUuid": "5111ff92_fe0c811d",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "311ff0d3_293ede49",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000002
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T15:15:06Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e Grep-ability is the only concern?\n\nFor me it is a social issue, not a technical one.  If you ask me, the technical arguments on both sides of this are some serious bike-shedding and of little consequence.\n\nBut instead of agreeing to disagree, we are going to codify that one point of view is \"wrong\" and the other is \"correct\" and make maintainers who are \"wrong\" accept changes counter to what they think is best for their bit of code?  That isn\u0027t a great look.  I can imagine that might make some current and future maintainers less excited about maintaining code.",
      "parentUuid": "d7445d09_cb5848bb",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "623ae3eb_fb694ade",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T15:44:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e If you ask me, the technical arguments on both sides of this are some serious bike-shedding and of little consequence.\n\nIt is unfortunate it is coming across as bike-shedding.  I must need to think about how these changes are being communicated.\n\nThis particular commit probably comes across as being about \"the strings\", which isn\u0027t really what this whole path is about.  We\u0027re actively trying to modernize the codebase, eliminate boilerplate, and get compile-time correctness on everything related to dbus.\n\nThere are some areas of the codebase where maintainers gladly accept the changes and others where we get conflicting rationale why.  One of the rationale was \"well, this isn\u0027t documented as a direction the project is going...\" so Alexander is trying to fix this.  (I even admitted I\u0027m not convinced this is the right place for the words to go, but I\u0027m also very tired of the goalposts moving for ... at least 4 years now... on this topic.)\n\n\u003e make maintainers who are \"wrong\" accept changes counter to what they think is best for their bit of code\n\nMaintainership is tricky.  It\u0027s helpful for people to feel some \"ownership\" in areas that they can help the project be successful in and I get that.  But it\u0027s not helpful for people to have a little kingdom inside the project.  At a project level we have to balance between those.  The \"kingdom\" behavior ends up turning away contributors, probably just as much, as \"lack of ownership\" turns away maintainers.",
      "parentUuid": "311ff0d3_293ede49",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "92e0a3bd_09f722cd",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000004
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T21:14:42Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Yeah, +1, I\u0027m always going to be one to vote for consistency across the project. There\u0027s a lot less friction contributing across the openbmc project when there is consistency.",
      "parentUuid": "623ae3eb_fb694ade",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c7891a44_1e1b3273",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000002
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-21T22:05:03Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e it\u0027s not helpful for people to have a little kingdom inside the project.\n\nThere is some irony in that a mandate is being made here, and those who want to be allowed to make a choice are then described as exhibiting kingdom behavior.  Who is the king in this kingdom?  Who are the subjects?  What exactly is the king doing?\n\n\u003e The \"kingdom\" behavior ends up turning away contributors\n\nDoes \"kingdom behavior\" mean choosing to not use PDI bindings?  When I was the king of OpenBMC and allowed Intel to do exactly that, contributions from them and others increased and became more diverse.  It\u0027s how we got entity-manager and dbus-sensors in the first place.  So my experience says this \"behavior\" doesn\u0027t effect contribution negatively.  Further, even if I grant (which I don\u0027t) that giving maintainers a choice hurts project participation, taking the choice away will hurt it even more.",
      "parentUuid": "623ae3eb_fb694ade",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "a8adbb62_ff9c15d5",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-22T02:38:47Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Acknowledged",
      "parentUuid": "c7891a44_1e1b3273",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": false,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c3823c4c_e3f35cbf",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-22T03:07:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "Marking as resolved since the open questions have been answered.",
      "parentUuid": "9ebee3c2_0dc64efd",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "c8b60c4d_6c329aec",
        "filename": "/PATCHSET_LEVEL",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 0,
      "author": {
        "id": 1001712
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-22T03:07:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "\u003e Does \"kingdom behavior\" mean choosing to not use PDI bindings?  When I \nwas the king of OpenBMC and allowed Intel to do exactly that, \ncontributions from them and others increased and became more diverse. \n\nIMO a *preference* for PDI generated symbols does not mean we cannot accept any hand-rolled code anymore. It just means there is a preference and people can clean things up at a later point.\n\nSo i don\u0027t get how it would impact contributions, since the contributions could still be made in the old way?",
      "parentUuid": "c7891a44_1e1b3273",
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "ee117640_6be3999d",
        "filename": "CONTRIBUTING.md",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 393,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000153
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T18:44:44Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "This rule wouldn\u0027t apply, as it talks about UNNAMED constants.  In the example, integers are used.  The examples here are generally named and are described as part of the API itself.  For example, scripts that hardcode \"/redfish/v1\" or \"https\" would not be covered under this rule.",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 393,
        "startChar": 20,
        "endLine": 393,
        "endChar": 130
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    },
    {
      "unresolved": true,
      "key": {
        "uuid": "172c35c4_d97ebe3a",
        "filename": "CONTRIBUTING.md",
        "patchSetId": 2
      },
      "lineNbr": 393,
      "author": {
        "id": 1000000
      },
      "writtenOn": "2026-01-20T21:46:33Z",
      "side": 1,
      "message": "I don\u0027t think the CCG distinguishes between \"named\" and \"unnamed\" contants.\n\n\u003e Enforcement Flag literals in code. Give a pass to 0, 1, nullptr, \\n, \"\", and others on a positive list.\n\nIt says to enforce a flag on all literals and gives an example that the empty string might be [one of the only] on a positive (allow) list.\n\nI agree that `\"/redfish/v1\"` is _probably_ obvious but is it more obvious than `redfish_prefix` is, I guess, a matter of taste preference.  The CCG in my reading says no, but if there were a clang-tidy check for this, there probably would be a \"false positive\" configuration for it and I\u0027d be fine with some \u0027well-known exceptions\u0027 like `\"/redfish/v1\"`.  That doesn\u0027t mean that every static string is fair game though...",
      "parentUuid": "ee117640_6be3999d",
      "range": {
        "startLine": 393,
        "startChar": 20,
        "endLine": 393,
        "endChar": 130
      },
      "revId": "cf30594970243739534116aca7b20be22cbf6db9",
      "serverId": "adbd0a64-1f21-4d83-b585-671fe73cb6e4"
    }
  ]
}