REST-cheatsheet.md, before:

# OpenBMC REST cheat sheet

This document is intended to provide a set of REST client commands for OpenBMC
usage.

## Using CURL commands

### Notes on authentication:

The original REST server, from the phosphor-rest-server repository, uses
authentication handled by the curl cookie jar files. The bmcweb REST server can
use the same cookie jar files for read-only REST methods like GET, but requires
either an authentication token or the username and password passed in as part of
the URL for non-read-only methods.

Starting with the 2.7 OpenBMC release (August 2019), bmcweb is the default REST
server.

### Establish REST connection session

- Using just the cookie jar files for the phosphor-rest server:
  ```
  $ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
  $ curl -c cjar -b cjar -k -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST https://${bmc}/login -d "{\"data\": [ \"root\", \"0penBmc\" ] }"
  ```
- If passing in the username/password as part of the URL, no unique login call
  is required. The URL format is:

  ```
  <username>:<password>@<hostname>/<path>...
  ```

  For example:

  ```
  $ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
  $ curl -k -X GET https://root:0penBmc@${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/list
  ```

- Token based authentication.

  ```
  $ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
  $ export token=`curl -k -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST https://${bmc}/login -d '{"username" :  "root", "password" :  "0penBmc"}' | grep token | awk '{print $2;}' | tr -d '"'`
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/...
  ```

  The third method is recommended.

### Commands

Note: To keep the syntax below common between the phosphor-rest and bmcweb
implementations as described above, this assumes that if bmcweb is used it is
using the 'Token based' login method as described above:

```
$ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
$ export token=`curl -k -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST https://${bmc}/login -d '{"username" :  "root", "password" :  "0penBmc"}' | grep token | awk '{print $2;}' | tr -d '"'`
$ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://$bmc/xyz/openbmc_project/...
```

- List and enumerate:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/list
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/enumerate
  ```

- List sub-objects:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/
  ```

- Host soft power off:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.Transition.Off"}' -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/host0/attr/RequestedHostTransition
  ```

- Host hard power off:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data":"xyz.openbmc_project.State.Chassis.Transition.Off"}' https://${bmc}//xyz/openbmc_project/state/chassis0/attr/RequestedPowerTransition
  ```

- Host power on:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.Transition.On"}' -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/host0/attr/RequestedHostTransition
  ```

- Reboot Host:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data":"xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.Transition.Reboot"}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/host0/attr/RequestedHostTransition
  ```

- Reboot BMC:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data":"xyz.openbmc_project.State.BMC.Transition.Reboot"}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/bmc0/attr/RequestedBMCTransition
  ```

- Display logging entries:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/logging/entry/enumerate
  ```

- Delete logging entries:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X DELETE https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/logging/entry/<entry_id>
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/logging/action/DeleteAll
  ```

- Delete dump entries:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X DELETE https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/dump/entry/<entry_id>
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/dump/action/DeleteAll
  ```

- Delete images from system:

  - Delete image:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"data": []}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/<image id>/action/Delete
  ```

  - Delete all non-running images:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"data": []}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/action/DeleteAll
  ```

- Clear gard records:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/org/open_power/control/gard/action/Reset
  ```

- Control boot source override:

  - Read current boot source override settings:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token"  https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/enumerate
  ```

  - Set boot source:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/BootSource -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Control.Boot.Source.Sources.Default"}'
  ```

  - Set boot mode:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/BootMode -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Control.Boot.Mode.Modes.Regular"}'
  ```

  - Set boot type (valid only if host is based on the x86 CPU):

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/BootType -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Control.Boot.Type.Types.EFI"}'
  ```

  - Set boot source override persistent:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/one_time/attr/Enabled -d '{"data": "false"}'
  ```

  - Enable boot source override:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/Enabled -d '{"data": "true"}'
  ```

- Set NTP and Nameserver:

  Examples using public server.

  - NTP Server:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data": ["pool.ntp.org"] }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/network/eth0/attr/NTPServers
  ```

  - Name Server:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data": ["time.google.com"] }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/network/eth0/attr/Nameservers
  ```

- Configure time ownership and time sync method:

  The introduction about time setting is here:
  https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-time-manager

  Note: Starting from OpenBMC 2.6 (with systemd v239), systemd's timedated
  introduces a new beahvior that it checks the NTP services' status during
  setting time, instead of checking the NTP setting:

  -When NTP server is set to disabled, and the NTP service is stopping but not
  stopped, setting time will get an error.

  Before OpenBMC 2.4 (with systemd v236), the above will always succeed. This
  results in
  [openbmc/openbmc#3459](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc/issues/3459), and
  the related test cases are updated to cooperate with this behavior change.

  - Read:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/sync_method/attr/TimeSyncMethod
  ```

  - Write:

  Time owner:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.BMC" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.Host" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.Split" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.Both" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  ```

  Time sync method:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Synchronization.Method.NTP" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/sync_method/attr/TimeSyncMethod
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Synchronization.Method.Manual" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/sync_method/attr/TimeSyncMethod
  ```

- Power Supply Redundancy:

  - Read:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/power_supply_redundancy
  ```

  - Write (Enable/Disable):

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/power_supply_redundancy/attr/PowerSupplyRedundancyEnabled -d '{"data": 1}'
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/power_supply_redundancy/attr/PowerSupplyRedundancyEnabled -d '{"data": 0}'
  ```

- Factory Reset:

  - Factory reset host and BMC software:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/action/Reset
  ```

  - Factory reset network setting:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/network/action/Reset
  ```

  - Enable field mode:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"data":1}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/attr/FieldModeEnabled
  ```

  and then reboot BMC.

Commit message:

REST cheatsheet: Add warning about default disable
https://github.com/openbmc/bmcweb/commit/47c9e106e0057dd70133d50e928e48cbc68e709a
disabled the OpenBMC REST API.

Tested: Pushed to my fork and looks good.

Change-Id: Ie2ef9414d17e5ac373937a3be4cee700cddf5534
Signed-off-by: Gunnar Mills <gmills@us.ibm.com>

REST-cheatsheet.md, after:

# OpenBMC REST cheat sheet

This document is intended to provide a set of REST client commands for OpenBMC
usage. OpenBMC REST is disabled by default in bmcweb. For more information, see
https://github.com/openbmc/bmcweb/commit/47c9e106e0057dd70133d50e928e48cbc68e709a.
Most of the functionality previously provided by OpenBMC REST is available in
Redfish.

## Using CURL commands

### Notes on authentication:

The original REST server, from the phosphor-rest-server repository, uses
authentication handled by the curl cookie jar files. The bmcweb REST server can
use the same cookie jar files for read-only REST methods like GET, but requires
either an authentication token or the username and password passed in as part of
the URL for non-read-only methods.

Starting with the 2.7 OpenBMC release (August 2019), bmcweb is the default REST
server. The phosphor-rest-server repository was archived in October 2022.

### Establish REST connection session

- Using just the cookie jar files for the phosphor-rest server:
  ```
  $ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
  $ curl -c cjar -b cjar -k -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST https://${bmc}/login -d "{\"data\": [ \"root\", \"0penBmc\" ] }"
  ```
- If passing in the username/password as part of the URL, no unique login call
  is required. The URL format is:

  ```
  <username>:<password>@<hostname>/<path>...
  ```

  For example:

  ```
  $ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
  $ curl -k -X GET https://root:0penBmc@${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/list
  ```

- Token based authentication.

  ```
  $ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
  $ export token=`curl -k -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST https://${bmc}/login -d '{"username" :  "root", "password" :  "0penBmc"}' | grep token | awk '{print $2;}' | tr -d '"'`
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/...
  ```

  The third method is recommended.

### Commands

Note: To keep the syntax below common between the phosphor-rest and bmcweb
implementations as described above, this assumes that if bmcweb is used it is
using the 'Token based' login method as described above:

```
$ export bmc=xx.xx.xx.xx
$ export token=`curl -k -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST https://${bmc}/login -d '{"username" :  "root", "password" :  "0penBmc"}' | grep token | awk '{print $2;}' | tr -d '"'`
$ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://$bmc/xyz/openbmc_project/...
```

- List and enumerate:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/list
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/enumerate
  ```

- List sub-objects:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/
  ```

- Host soft power off:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.Transition.Off"}' -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/host0/attr/RequestedHostTransition
  ```

- Host hard power off:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data":"xyz.openbmc_project.State.Chassis.Transition.Off"}' https://${bmc}//xyz/openbmc_project/state/chassis0/attr/RequestedPowerTransition
  ```

- Host power on:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.Transition.On"}' -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/host0/attr/RequestedHostTransition
  ```

- Reboot Host:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data":"xyz.openbmc_project.State.Host.Transition.Reboot"}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/host0/attr/RequestedHostTransition
  ```

- Reboot BMC:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data":"xyz.openbmc_project.State.BMC.Transition.Reboot"}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/state/bmc0/attr/RequestedBMCTransition
  ```

- Display logging entries:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/logging/entry/enumerate
  ```

- Delete logging entries:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X DELETE https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/logging/entry/<entry_id>
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/logging/action/DeleteAll
  ```

- Delete dump entries:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X DELETE https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/dump/entry/<entry_id>
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/dump/action/DeleteAll
  ```

- Delete images from system:

  - Delete image:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"data": []}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/<image id>/action/Delete
  ```

  - Delete all non-running images:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"data": []}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/action/DeleteAll
  ```

- Clear gard records:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/org/open_power/control/gard/action/Reset
  ```

- Control boot source override:

  - Read current boot source override settings:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token"  https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/enumerate
  ```

  - Set boot source:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/BootSource -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Control.Boot.Source.Sources.Default"}'
  ```

  - Set boot mode:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/BootMode -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Control.Boot.Mode.Modes.Regular"}'
  ```

  - Set boot type (valid only if host is based on the x86 CPU):

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/BootType -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Control.Boot.Type.Types.EFI"}'
  ```

  - Set boot source override persistent:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/one_time/attr/Enabled -d '{"data": "false"}'
  ```

  - Enable boot source override:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/host0/boot/attr/Enabled -d '{"data": "true"}'
  ```

- Set NTP and Nameserver:

  Examples using public server.

  - NTP Server:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data": ["pool.ntp.org"] }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/network/eth0/attr/NTPServers
  ```

  - Name Server:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT -d '{"data": ["time.google.com"] }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/network/eth0/attr/Nameservers
  ```

- Configure time ownership and time sync method:

  The introduction about time setting is here:
  https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-time-manager

  Note: Starting from OpenBMC 2.6 (with systemd v239), systemd's timedated
  introduces a new beahvior that it checks the NTP services' status during
  setting time, instead of checking the NTP setting:

  -When NTP server is set to disabled, and the NTP service is stopping but not
  stopped, setting time will get an error.

  Before OpenBMC 2.4 (with systemd v236), the above will always succeed. This
  results in
  [openbmc/openbmc#3459](https://github.com/openbmc/openbmc/issues/3459), and
  the related test cases are updated to cooperate with this behavior change.

  - Read:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/sync_method/attr/TimeSyncMethod
  ```

  - Write:

  Time owner:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.BMC" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.Host" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.Split" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Owner.Owners.Both" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/owner/attr/TimeOwner
  ```

  Time sync method:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Synchronization.Method.NTP" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/sync_method/attr/TimeSyncMethod
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X  PUT -d '{"data": "xyz.openbmc_project.Time.Synchronization.Method.Manual" }' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/time/sync_method/attr/TimeSyncMethod
  ```

- Power Supply Redundancy:

  - Read:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -X GET https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/power_supply_redundancy
  ```

  - Write (Enable/Disable):

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/power_supply_redundancy/attr/PowerSupplyRedundancyEnabled -d '{"data": 1}'
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/control/power_supply_redundancy/attr/PowerSupplyRedundancyEnabled -d '{"data": 0}'
  ```

- Factory Reset:

  - Factory reset host and BMC software:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/action/Reset
  ```

  - Factory reset network setting:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X POST -d '{"data":[]}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/network/action/Reset
  ```

  - Enable field mode:

  ```
  $ curl -k -H "X-Auth-Token: $token" -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -X PUT -d '{"data":1}' https://${bmc}/xyz/openbmc_project/software/attr/FieldModeEnabled
  ```

  and then reboot BMC.
