# OpenBMC platform communication channel: MCTP & PLDM in userspace

Author: Jeremy Kerr <jk@ozlabs.org> <jk>

Please refer to the [MCTP Overview](mctp.md) document for general
MCTP design description, background and requirements.

This document describes a userspace implementation of MCTP
infrastructure, allowing a straightforward mechanism of supporting MCTP
messaging within an OpenBMC system.

## Proposed Design

The MCTP core specification just provides the packetisation, routing and
addressing mechanisms. The actual transmit/receive of those packets is
up to the hardware binding of the MCTP transport.

For OpenBMC, we would introduce a MCTP daemon, which implements the transport
over a configurable hardware channel (eg., Serial UART, I2C or PCIe), and
provides a socket-based interface for other processes to send and
receive complete MCTP messages. This daemon is responsible for the
packetisation and routing of MCTP messages from external endpoints, and
handling the forwarding these messages to and from individual handler
applications. This includes handling local MCTP-stack configuration,
like local EID assignments.

This daemon has a few components:

 1) the core MCTP stack

 2) one or more binding implementations (eg, MCTP-over-serial), which
    interact with the hardware channel(s).

 3) an interface to handler applications over a unix-domain socket.

The proposed implementation here is to produce an MCTP "library" which
provides the packetisation and routing functions, between:

 - an "upper" messaging transmit/receive interface, for tx/rx of a full
   message to a specific endpoint (ie, (1) above)

 - a "lower" hardware binding for transmit/receive of individual
   packets, providing a method for the core to tx/rx each packet to
   hardware, and defines the parameters of the common packetisation
   code (ie. (2) above).

The lower interface would be plugged in to one of a number of
hardware-specific binding implementations. Most of these would be
included in the library source tree, but others can be plugged-in too,
perhaps where the physical layer implementation does not make sense to
include in the platform-agnostic library.

The reason for a library is to allow the same MCTP implementation to be
used in both OpenBMC and host firmware; the library should be
bidirectional. To allow this, the library would be written in portable C
(structured in a way that can be compiled as "extern C" in C++
codebases), and be able to be configured to suit those runtime
environments (for example, POSIX IO may not be available on all
platforms; we should be able to compile the library to suit). The
licence for the library should also allow this re-use; a dual Apache &
GPLv2+ licence may be best.

These "lower" binding implementations may have very different methods of
transferring packets to the physical layer. For example, a serial
binding implementation for running on a Linux environment may be
implemented through read()/write() syscalls to a PTY device. An I2C
binding for use in low-level host firmware environments may interact
directly with hardware registers to perform packet transfers.

The application-specific handlers implement the actual functionality
provided over the MCTP channel, and connect to the central daemon over a
UNIX domain socket. Each of these would register with the MCTP daemon to
receive MCTP messages of a certain type, and would transmit MCTP
messages of that same type.

The daemon's sockets to these handlers is configured for non-blocking
IO, to allow the daemon to be decoupled from any blocking behaviour of
handlers. The daemon would use a message queue to enable message
reception/transmission to a blocked daemon, but this would be of a
limited size. Handlers whose sockets exceed this queue would be
disconnected from the daemon.

One design intention of the multiplexer daemon is to allow a future
kernel-based MCTP implementation without requiring major structural
changes to handler applications. The socket-based interface facilitates
this, as the unix-domain socket interface could be fairly easily swapped
out with a new kernel-based socket type.

MCTP is intended to be an optional component of OpenBMC. Platforms using
OpenBMC are free to adopt it as they see fit.

### Demultiplexer daemon interface

MCTP handlers (ie, clients of the demultiplexer) connect using a
unix-domain socket, at the abstract socket address:

  \0mctp-demux

The socket type used should be `SOCK_SEQPACKET`.

Once connected, the client sends a single byte message, indicating what
type of MCTP messages should be forwarded to the client. Types must be
greater than zero.

Subsequent messages sent over the socket are MCTP messages sent/received
by the demultiplexer, that match the specified MCTP message type.
Clients should use the send/recv syscalls to interact with the socket.

Each message has a fixed small header:

   `uint8_t eid`

For messages coming from the demux daemon, this indicates the source EID
of the outgoing MCTP message. For messages going to the demux daemon,
this indicates the destination EID.

The rest of the message data is the complete MCTP message, including
MCTP message type field.

The daemon does not provide a facility for clients to specify or
retrieve values for the tag field in individual MCTP packets.


## Alternatives Considered

In terms of an MCTP daemon structure, an alternative is to have the
MCTP implementation contained within a single process, using the libmctp
API directly for passing messages from the core code to
application-level handlers. The drawback of this approach is that this
single process needs to implement all possible functionality that is
available over MCTP, which may be quite a disjoint set. This would
likely lead to unnecessary restrictions on the implementation of those
application-level handlers (programming language, frameworks used, etc).
Also, this single-process approach would likely need more significant
modifications if/when MCTP protocol support is moved to the kernel.

The interface between the demultiplexer daemon and clients is currently
defined as a socket-based interface. However, an alternative here would
be to pass MCTP messages over dbus instead. The reason for the choice of
sockets rather than dbus is that the former allows a direct transition
to a kernel-based socket API when suitable.

## Testing

For the core MCTP library, we are able to run tests there in complete
isolation (I have already been able to run a prototype MCTP stack
through the afl fuzzer) to ensure that the core transport protocol
works.

For MCTP hardware bindings, we would develop channel-specific tests that
would be run in CI on both host and BMC.

For the OpenBMC MCTP daemon implementation, testing models would depend
on the structure we adopt in the design section.
