# AST27x0

Author: Vince Chang <vince_chang@aspeedtech.com>

Created: December 10, 2025

## Prebuilt Binary Description

AST27x0 `image-u-boot` includes prebuilt firmware binaries for AST27x0 bring-up.

### Prebuilt Binary Location

The prebuilt binaries are stored in the prebuilt directory of the fmc_imgtool
repository:

- <https://github.com/AspeedTech-BMC/fmc_imgtool/tree/master/prebuilt>

### Prebuilt Binary Summary

| File Name                 | Category       | Description                                                                                 |
| ------------------------- | -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| ast2700-caliptra-fw\*.bin | Caliptra       | Caliptra binary includes the Firmware Manifest, Caliptra FMC binary, and Caliptra RT binary |
| ddr\*.bin                 | Vendor IP      | PMU training firmware (DDR4 / DDR5)                                                         |
| dp_fw.bin                 | Proprietary IP | Display Port controller firmware                                                            |
| uefi_ast2700.bin          | VBIOS          | AST2700 UEFI boot firmware                                                                  |

#### Caliptra Binary Description

Caliptra binary includes the Firmware Manifest, Caliptra FMC binary, and
Caliptra RT binary. The Caliptra FMC and RT binaries were built from the
caliptra-sw project
(<https://github.com/chipsalliance/caliptra-sw/commit/51ff0a89f169bbf8e06acb49b31db555e99fefb6>).

The Firmware Manifest contains ASPEED's vendor key hash and signature, which are
required for firmware authentication.

On MP (Mass Production) parts, the vendor key hash is permanently fused into OTP
as part of the hardware Root of Trust. During boot, the Caliptra ROM verifies
the firmware by validating the signature against the fused key hash.

As a result, any Caliptra firmware image built from source without ASPEED's
private signing key cannot be authenticated. In such cases, the key-hash
verification will fail, and the firmware will not boot.

#### DDR Binary Description

The DDR binaries are used for DDR4/DDR5 PHY training. These binaries are
provided/generated by the DDR PHY IP vendor toolchain. Therefore, we only
provide a prebuilt binary.

#### Display Port Binary Description

The Display Port controller firmware, due to IP and licensing restrictions, is
supplied as a pre-built binary and is not generated as part of the OpenBMC build
process.

#### UEFI Binary Description

The AST2700 UEFI binary is delivered as a pre-built artifact because it is must
undergo a vendor-controlled EV (Exended Validation) signing process to satisfy
host secure boot requirements. The binary is built and signed in a separate,
controlled environment prior to delivery.
