# System Diagnostic Data Collection on OpenBMC

Author: Chau Ly <chaul@amperecomputing.com> <chaulyvietnam>

Created: 2025-03-26

## Problem Description

Users should be able to collect diagnostic data from the system, and track the
task status.

This design focuses on how users can request to collect host diagnostic data,
and how BMC handles these requests.

## Background and References

### System diagnostic data

A dump file is diagnostic data collected at any time from the system and stored
as a file to troubleshoot any abnormal behavior. The recorded data can be
anything from application core dump to network configuration, system inventory
configuration, journal log, etc... The file can be stored in Host and then
offloaded through BMC.

### DMTF proposal

DMTF proposed an enhancement of `LogService` resource for Diagnostic Data before
(https://www.dmtf.org/sites/default/files/Redfish_Diagnostic_Data_Logging_Proposal_05-2020-WIP.pdf).
The enhancement has been partly implemented in OpenBMC's `bmcweb` repository,
which promotes the `CollectDiagnosticData` action in `LogService` schema under
`ComputerSystem` resource.

### OpenBMC Dump Manager

[Dump Manager design doc](https://github.com/openbmc/docs/blob/master/designs/dump-manager.md)
in OpenBMC defines a few types of dump in
[phosphor-dump-manager](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-debug-collector)
service, including: BMC Dump, System Dump, Resource Dump, Hostboot Dump,
Hardware Dump. Among these, System Dump and Resource Dump refer to debug
information and host dump that can be initiated to be collected by users and
offloaded through BMC.

The implementation for System Dump and Resource Dump are placed in IBM's
[openpower-dump](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-debug-collector/tree/master/dump-extensions/openpower-dumps)
subfolder of phosphor-debug-collector. Both types utilize many OEM-defined
behaviors, PLDM File Transfer for moving dump records to BMC, and those dump
files are then exposed as dump entries on D-Bus.

### PLDM File Transfer

[DSP0242 v1.0.0](https://www.dmtf.org/sites/default/files/standards/documents/DSP0242_1.0.0.pdf)
defines messages and data structures used for transferring files between PLDM
termini, within a PLDM subsystem. File Transfer specification describes the
mechanism that allows:

- Discovery of files, directories and file/directory metadata available on a
  PLDM terminus via PLDM PDR entries and File Transfer specific sensors, for
  transfer purpose between File Host and File Client
- Reading regular and serial FIFO type files

## Requirements

1. There should be a way through which user can collect the diagnostic data from
   the system and offload it through Redfish. These diagnostic data are stored
   in Host memory and can be collected by users at any time.
2. Users should be able to monitor the status of the dump collecting task
   through Redfish.
3. Users should be able to introspect and download a dump entry through Redfish
   when the task status is complete.
4. Users should be able to delete a dump entry from BMC through Redfish.
5. The dumps represented to users should not be duplicate in content.
6. BMC should be able to offload diagnostic data files from Host.
7. The offloading task should be non-blocking.
8. Host should be able to notify a new system dump to BMC but it will not have
   data until users request to collect.

## Proposed Design

The proposed design describes related Redfish schemas, corresponding D-Bus Dump
interfaces, how BMC and Host should communicate, interaction between components,
a sequence diagram and explanations, and finally some error handling scenarios.

### Redfish interfaces

The `.CollectDiagnosticData` action of
[LogService 1.4.0](https://www.dmtf.org/sites/default/files/standards/documents/DSP2046_2023.1.pdf)
schema of Redfish is utilized for gathering system diagnostic data as follows:

`POST /redfish/v1/Systems/{ComputerSystemId}/LogServices/Dump/CollectDiagnosticData {   "DiagnosticDataType": "OEM",   "OEMDiagnosticDataType": "System" }`

The implementation for this action is already supported in `bmcweb`. The `Task`
and `LogEntry` schemas allow querying the status of log collection task and log
entry information respectively. These implementations follow the existing
approaches of BMC Dump and FaultLog Dump collection in `bmcweb`.

The `.ClearLog` action of `LogServices` is used to delete a dump from the entry
collection.

The `AttachmentURL` property of `LogEntry` schema is used to download the entry.

These schemas fulfilled the requirements 1, 2, 3 and 4.

### Dump interfaces

`phosphor-dbus-interfaces` already has the schema for Dump Entry interfaces, The
schema for
[System Dump Entry](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/master/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/Entry/System.interface.yaml)
represents host dump records stored in host memory, generated by system or on
demand request from users, that can be offloaded through BMC. The dump records
can be offloaded to BMC.

For Dump Entry in general, there is an
[Entry interface](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/master/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/Entry.interface.yaml)
that provides required functionalities of a dump.
[Dump Manager design doc](https://github.com/openbmc/docs/blob/master/designs/dump-manager.md)
facilitates all the functionalities of interfaces related to a dump record, such
as
[Dump.Create](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/master/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/Create.interface.yaml)
and
[Dump.NewDump](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/master/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/NewDump.interface.yaml)
interfaces. The two interfaces implement `CreateDump` and `Notify` methods
respectively to support request of a dump type (user-created dump) and
notification when a new dump record is ready to be offloaded. The `Dump.Entry`
has an `InitiateOffload` method to initiate offloading a dump.

- A `system-dump-manager` service in `phopsphor-debug-collector` repo handles
  calls to `CreateDump` and `Notify` methods for system dump path
  `xyz/openbmc_project/dump/system/` and works with `system-dump-collector` to
  collect and offload dumps.

  - The `CreateDump` method will result in a temporary dump entry with a
    `xyz.openbmc_project.Common.Progress.OperationStatus.InProgress` status,
    invalid
    [SourceDumpId](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/10ad7d8df4dc29778e4ff144c819e1c0210671a3/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/Entry/System.interface.yaml#L11)
    on and zero size to D-Bus. It also requests `system-dump-collector` to
    collect system dumps. A call to `CreateDump` will return error if there's
    already a temporary dump present on D-Bus that has not been processed
    completely yet.

  - The `Notify` method will notify `SourceDumpId` and `Size` of a system dump
    to D-Bus. If there's one dump with invalid `SourceDumpId`, it will update to
    this dump. Otherwise, it will create a new entry with increasing entry ID.
    `Notify` will delete the old dump entry which shares the same `SourceDumpId`
    property value with the newly-notified dump.

  - The `InitiateOffload` is to trigger offloading each system dump entry to an
    URI that was passed in.

- A `system-dump-collector` service in the same repo will trigger collecting
  system dumps from Host. When all the existing dumps are collected, it should
  call `Notify` for each new dump to create new dump entries, then call
  `InitiateOffload` for each entry. When the offloading is complete, it should
  update the dump status to D-Bus and write dump content to the URI. How this
  service trigger collecting and request offloading dumps from Host is per OEM
  implementation, but these two tasks must be non-blocking.

- Host can notify a new system dump to BMC by issuing requests to a BMC
  application to call `Notify` method. How Host conducts this notification is
  per OEM implementation.

These can fulfilled the requirements 5, 6, 7, and 8.

### BMC-Host interface

The interface for BMC to collect dumps and offload dumps from Host is per OEM
implementation and out of this design's scope.

### High-level interactions

1. Users request BMC to collect system diagnostic data, introspect task status
   and dump entry, download or delete dump entry via Redfish out-of-band
   interface.
2. `bmcweb` handles Redfish requests and calls to the system dump interface
   hosted by `system-dump-manager` service in `phophor-debug-collector` repo.
3. `system-dump-manager` handles download, delete and introspection requests on
   its own. However, for dump creation request, it interacts with
   `system-dump-collector` to collect and offload dumps from Host.
4. How `system-dump-collector` triggers collecting dumps from Host is OEM
   implementation.

```
@startuml
component BMC {
    component bmcweb
    component sdm as "system-dump-manager"
    component sdc as "system-dump-collector"
}
component Host
component User
interface dump_inf as "System Dump Interface"

User <-> bmcweb: Redfish
bmcweb ..> () dump_inf: uses
sdm - dump_inf
sdm <-> sdc
sdc <-> Host: OEM
@enduml
```

### Diagnostic Data Retrieval sequence

Some error scenarios during Redfish communication and the presence of `D-Bus`
between `bmcweb` and `system-dump-manager` will be implied and omitted from the
diagram for simplicity.

1.  Users request to collect Diagnostic Data of the system via Redfish with
    `POST /redfish/v1/Systems/{ComputerSystemId}/LogServices/{LogServiceId}/CollectDiagnosticData{"DiagnosticDataType": "OEM", "OEMDiagnosticDataType": "System"}`

    1. `bmcweb` calls
       [CreateDump](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/13289c9414b6838eaa8544cbfc393b5f2ef9672b/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/Create.interface.yaml#L12)
       on the system dump path that is handled by `system-dump-manager`.
       `CreateDump` creates a temporary system dump entry on D-Bus. This will
       result in an `Running` `Task` in Redfish. Then it calls to
       `system-dump-collector` to trigger collecting dumps and returns
       immediately.

2.  When the dump-collecting task completes, `system-dump-collector` calls to
    `system-dump-manager` to notify about each dump and initiate offloading it.

    1. [Notify](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/13289c9414b6838eaa8544cbfc393b5f2ef9672b/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/NewDump.interface.yaml#L12)
       method results in update to the temporary dump entry and maybe the
       creation of a new dump entry on D-Bus with size and source dump ID.

    2. [InitiateOffload](https://github.com/openbmc/phosphor-dbus-interfaces/blob/13289c9414b6838eaa8544cbfc393b5f2ef9672b/yaml/xyz/openbmc_project/Dump/Entry.interface.yaml#L11)
       method to the dump entry results in a call to `system-dump-collector` to
       trigger offloading the dump.

    3. `system-dump-collector` triggers an asynchronous call that is OEM
       implementation to offload the dump.

3.  When the request to offload each dump completes, `system-dump-collector`
    will call to `system-dump-manager` to update status of the dump entry to
    `xyz.openbmc_project.Common.Progress.OperationStatus.Completed` and save the
    returned fd of the dump to memory (e.g to a file in the hardcoded directory
    in /tmp/). The corresponding `TaskService` in Redfish will now have
    `Completed` state.

```
@startuml
actor User
participant bmcweb as "bmcweb"
participant sdm as "system-dump-manager"
participant sdc as "system-dump-collector"

==Users request to collect dump==
User -> bmcweb ++: 1.Request to collect system diagnostic data

bmcweb -> sdm ++: 1.1.Request system dump creation <<CreateDump>>
sdm ->> sdc: 1.1.2.<<Async>> Trigger collecting dumps

sdm --> bmcweb --: return Dump Entry D-Bus path
bmcweb --> User --: 200 SUCCESS

==Handler of request to collect dumps==
note over sdc: 2.Handler of request to collect dumps
loop Dump files
    sdc -> sdm: 2.1.<<Notify>> creation of a new dump
    sdc -> sdm: 2.2.<<InitiateOffload>> the entry
    sdm ->> sdc: 2.3.<<Async>> Request offloading
end

==Handler of request to offload a dump==
note over sdc: 3.Handler of request to offload a dump
sdc -> sdm: 3.1.Update entry status and save returned fd to memory
@enduml
```

### Error handling

`system-dump-manager` will return `xyz.openbmc_project.Common.Error.Unavailable`
error for a `CreateDump` call if there's already one system dump entry with
invalid `SourceDumpId`. This will result in a `ResourceInUse` error to the
Redfish call to `.CollectDiagnosticData`. `system-dump-manager` will return
`xyz.openbmc_project.Common.Error.NotAllowed` if Host's power is Off, which will
result in `ResourceInStandby` error to Redfish.

If there should be any error in `system-dump-manager` or `system-dump-collector`
when they are trying to collect system dump, they should update the temporary
dump entry's status on D-Bus to
`xyz.openbmc_project.Common.Progress.OperationStatus.Failed`, which causes the
corresponding `Task` in Redfish to be in `Cancelled` state. The `Task` will also
be `Cancelled` if the predefined timeout is reached and it is still in `Running`
state.

If there should be any error in `system-dump-manager` or `system-dump-collector`
when they are trying to offload the dump, they should update the notified dump
entry's status on D-Bus to
`xyz.openbmc_project.Common.Progress.OperationStatus.Failed` also.

## Alternatives Considered

Make the communication between `system-dump-collector` and Host generic using
PLDM. However, after consideration, there can be a lot of differences in
perceptions and perspectives about system diagnostic data retrieval between each
platform when it comes to implementations. We should not expect all to share the
same practice because it may not suit their platform requirements. However, the
communication between system-dump-collector and Host can use PLDM File Transfer.
The alternative design can be as follows.

### PLDM Fie Transfer for BMC-Host Interface

For `system-dump-collector` to collect dumps from Host to BMC, there needs to be
an interface to send request to Host and transfer dump data back to BMC.
Platform Level Data Model (PLDM) can be used to fulfill that with the presence
of PLDM File Transfer model that is to be implemented in `pldmd` repo as
described in [PLDM File Transfer](#pldm-file-transfer). In diagnostic data
collection flow, BMC is File Client, and any Satellite Management Controller
that is in charge of storing the system diagnostic data is File Host.

With this approach, BMC can have prior knowledge of the diagnostic data files
possible to be collected from Host in form of File Descriptor PDRs (DSP0248
v1.3.0 Table 108), and use File Transfer commands described in DSP0242 v1.0.0 to
offload the dump data (DfOpen/DfRead/DfClose). OEM can use the
`FileClassification` or `OemFileClassificationName` field in File Descriptor PDR
to distinguish the diagnostic data files from other files.

`pldmd` can publish these files as FUSE mountpoints or D-Bus file objects
depending on implementation, so `system-dump-collector` can interact with the
dump files. The file interface shall provide name, size and allow other
applications to read the file content. The dump file content shall be stored in
Host memory and only offloaded through BMC by issuing PLDM commands to Host upon
read. Users of the file interface will decide how the content will be stored
afterwards.

### High-level interactions with PLDM File Transfer

The first three interactions are the same to what were described in
[Component interactions](#component-interactions)

4. `system-dump-collector` looks for file object interfaces that are exposed by
   `pldmd`, and calls to the interfaces to retrieve dump entry's information and
   dump content to create/update to dump entries on D-Bus.

5. `pldmd` handles calls from `system-dump-manager` by issuing PLDM requests to
   Host and returning necessary information. If error happens during PLDM
   commnunication, `pldmd` will return approriate errors to
   `system-dump-manager`, which will result in corresponding response to user
   requests.

```
@startuml
component BMC {
    component bmcweb
    component sdm as "system-dump-manager"
    component sdc as "system-dump-collector"
    component pldmd
}
component Host
component User
interface dump_inf as "System Dump Interface"
interface file_inf as "File Interface"

User <-> bmcweb: Redfish
bmcweb ..> () dump_inf: uses
dump_inf - sdm
sdm - sdc
sdc ..> () file_inf: uses
file_inf - pldmd
pldmd <-> Host: PLDM
@enduml
```

### Impact Assessment

This alternative design is more complex and require two novice components
compared to the main design's [impacts](#impacts):

- Add a new file object D-Bus interface to `phosphor-dbus-interfaces` or enlist
  [libfuse](https://github.com/libfuse/libfuse) to create FUSE mountpoints for
  File Descriptor PDRs.

- Implement PLDM File Transfer to `libpldm` and `pldmd` repo.

## Impacted Repos

This change will need to:

- Support downloading a dump entry under `ComputerSystem` in `bmcweb` repo.
- Add a `system-dump-manager` to the existing dump manager classes in the
  `phosphor-debug-colletor` repo.
- Add a `system-dump-collector` service to `phosphor-debug-colletor` repo whose
  implementations can be overriden by OEM in an extension folder in the repo.

### Organizational

The repositories under impact will be: `bmcweb`, `phosphor-debug-collector`.

## Testing

Steps to test this feature out:

1. Request to collect system diagnostic data via Redfish and see if a system
   dump entry with basic info is created on D-Bus.
2. Calls Notify for a number of new dumps on system dump path and see if the new
   dump entries are created or updated to D-Bus.
3. Request to monitor the task status of the dump collecting action via Redfish
   and expect it to be In-progress.
4. This can be tested further by simulating a response to the dump offloading
   request with valid fd, then see if the status is now completed, and the entry
   can be introspected and downloaded via Redfish.
